---
title: "\"Word\" -Muhammad Ali"
date: 2012-11-05 02:59:52 00:00
permalink: /videos/1455
source: "http://vimeo.com/46432990"
featured: true
provider: "Vimeo"
thumbnail: "http://b.vimeocdn.com/ts/323/340/323340204_960.jpg"
user:
  id: 1
  username: "sawyer"
  name: "Sawyer Hollenshead"
tags: ["muhammad ali","poetry","calligraphy","mos def"]
html: "<iframe src=\"http://player.vimeo.com/video/46432990\" width=\"1280\" height=\"720\" frameborder=\"0\" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>"
id: 1455
---

Word is a commercial for Louis Vuitton’s Muhammad Ali campaign. Directed by Stuart McIntyre, the ad stars the words and swagger of hip hop superstar Mos Def (now performing as Yasiin Bey) and gorgeous work of calligraffiti artist Niels Shoe Meulman. What exactly does the Mighty Mos Def say about the Greatest? The transcript is below.

This is the story of Muhammad Ali,
The prettiest fighter that ever will be.
He talks a great deal and brags in deed-y
Of a muscular punch that’s incredibly speedy.
The fistic world was dull and weary.
With a champ like Liston, things had to be dreary.
Then comes someone with color, someone with dash,
To get the fight fans running with cash.
This brash, young fighter is something to see,
And the heavyweight championship is his destiny.
Ali fights great—he’s got speed and endurance,
But if you sign on to fight him, increase your insurance.
Ali’s got left. Ali’s got right.
And if he hits you once, you’ll sleep for the night.
As you lay on the mat as the ref counts to ten,
You’ll pray you never have to fight him again.
For I am the man this poem is about,
The heavyweight champion, there is no doubt.
This I predicted and I knew the score,
The champ of the world in ’64.
When I say three, they go in the third.
Don’t bet against me, I’m a man of my word.
For I am the man this poem is about.
The heavyweight champ, there is no doubt.
Here I predicted Mr. Liston’s dismemberment.
Hit him so hard he wondered where October and November went.
When I say two, there’s never a third.
Standing against me is completely absurd.
If I tell you a mosquito can pull a plow,
Don’t ask how; Hitch him up.
I am the greatest.
I am the greatest.
I am the greatest.