---
title: "Elon Musk - The Future of Energy & Transport"
date: 2012-11-23 03:31:38 00:00
permalink: /videos/1500
source: "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c1HZIQliuoA&feature=youtu.be"
thumbnail: "http://i4.ytimg.com/vi/c1HZIQliuoA/hqdefault.jpg"
user:
  username: "sawyer"
  name: "Sawyer Hollenshead"
tags: ["lecture","elon musk","spacex","tesla"]
html: "<iframe width=\"640\" height=\"360\" src=\"http://www.youtube.com/embed/c1HZIQliuoA?wmode=transparent&fs=1&feature=oembed\" frameborder=\"0\" allowfullscreen></iframe>"
---

Elon Musk, the Founder of Tesla Motors and SpaceX, and Chairman of SolarCity, will talk from his own experiences at the forefront of technology and innovation about what kind of technological transformations are just around the corner and how these can help address the world's critical challenges.

Elon Musk is the CEO and Product Architect of Tesla Motors and the CEO/CTO of Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX).

At SpaceX, Elon is the chief designer, overseeing development of rockets and spacecraft for missions to Earth orbit and ultimately to other planets. SpaceX is the first commercial company to have successfully recovered a spacecraft from Earth orbit (in 2010) and to have docked with the International Space Station (in 2012).

At Tesla, Elon has overseen product development and design from the beginning. Transitioning to a sustainable energy economy, in which electric vehicles play a pivotal role, has been one of his central interests for almost two decades.

In addition, Elon is the non-executive chairman and principal shareholder of SolarCity, which he helped create. SolarCity is now the leading provider of solar power systems in the United States.

Prior to SpaceX, Elon co-founded PayPal, the world’s leading Internet payment system, and served as the company’s Chairman and CEO. Before PayPal, he co-founded Zip2, a provider of Internet software to the media industry.

Elon has a physics degree from the University of Pennsylvania and a business degree from Wharton.