---
title: "Nigel Sylvester in Japan - Gatorade Go All Day"
date: 2012-05-15 04:55:08 00:00
permalink: /videos/18
source: "https://vimeo.com/16826531"
thumbnail: "http://b.vimeocdn.com/ts/109/617/109617491_1280.jpg"
user:
  username: "sawyer"
  name: "Sawyer Hollenshead"
tags: ["bmx","nigel sylvester","japan","sports"]
html: "<iframe src=\"http://player.vimeo.com/video/16826531\" width=\"1280\" height=\"720\" frameborder=\"0\" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>"
---

"Gatorade has spent many years researching and understanding what goes on in traditional athletes bodies when they are doing their sports. Whether it be hydration levels or information about how their body reacts to the most intense moments, Gatorade and their sport scientists have a pretty good idea about what’s going on with—like I said—their traditional athletes… Action sports on the other hand, that’s a totally different story.

This year, Gatorade’s theme is “Go All Day.” In celebrating that theme, Gatorade wanted to start doing research on the non-traditional sports like BMX, so they hit up Nigel Sylvester, who rides for Gatorade and asked him a pretty crazy question: If you could go anywhere in the world to ride bikes with his friends, where would you go? That’s a very heavy question to ask someone, even Nigel… so after lots of research and different ideas being thrown around, Japan was chosen as the destination! With it’s huge city, amazing architecture, and lots of un-tapped spots, Japan would be the perfect location.

To document the trip, Gatorade invited a few key BMX media outlets, including Defgrip, to go along for the ride. The video you are about to watch documents the trip from the riding and research, to the culture and adventures and to coincide with the video, we will have a photo gallery with a more detailed story going up next week!

Huge thanks to Nigel and Gatorade for putting this trip together and we hope you enjoy the video!"