---
title: "UX Week 2013 | Sarah B. Nelson | Working the Edge, Leading Change Gracefully"
date: 2014-07-20 20:53:10 00:00
permalink: /videos/2359
source: "http://vimeo.com/76346265"
thumbnail: "http://i.vimeocdn.com/video/451534279_1280.jpg"
user:
  username: "uxtvclub"
  name: "UXTVClub"
tags: ["design","ux","change","sarah b. nelson","organizations","teams"]
html: "<iframe class=\"embedly-embed\" src=\"//cdn.embedly.com/widgets/media.html?src=http%3A%2F%2Fplayer.vimeo.com%2Fvideo%2F76346265&wmode=transparent&src_secure=1&url=http%3A%2F%2Fvimeo.com%2F76346265&image=http%3A%2F%2Fi.vimeocdn.com%2Fvideo%2F451534279_1280.jpg&key=daaebf4d9cdd46779200162d0ca86e20&type=text%2Fhtml&schema=vimeo\" width=\"1280\" height=\"720\" scrolling=\"no\" frameborder=\"0\" allowfullscreen></iframe>"
---

Radically Human sits at the intersection of user experience practice and organizational design, coaching leaders and teams to produce useful and profitable products and services. Sarah is a popular speaker at design and UX conferences where she conducts workshops on cultivating a human-centered mindset, design facilitation, emotional literacy in creative leadership, organization design, creativity/design practice, and the intersection of business and design strategy.
Sarah has taken a human-centered approach to the design of technology since 1994, developing product strategies, digital experiences for clients such as Nike, The Metropolitan Opera, Skype, Vanguard Funds, PayCycle, Zappos, Intel, and The Yerba Buena Center for the Arts. She has also coached teams at United Airlines, Trek, Eventbrite, Riotgames, Autodesk, Lush Cosmetics, nForm, and Mozilla to advance their UX practices.
Sarah has led teams at Adaptive Path, Hot Studio, and POP! and holds a Master of Design Methods (MDM) from the Institute of Design in Chicago. A classically trained violinist and fine art photographer, Sarah graduated from the Interlochen Arts Academy and received a Bachelors of Art from Oberlin College in visual arts and electronic music. Sarah is also a practicing co-active coach and is currently pursuing certification in Organizational Relationship Systems Coaching at the Center for Right Relationship.